# MIT Policy Pal

In times when public cooperation is critical, as is the case during the current pandemic, clear policy communication provides the primary mechanism of support. The Institute’s COVID-19 guidelines are exceedingly thorough and cover a broad scope of scenarios for members across the entire community; however, this makes quickly finding specific protocols cumbersome. Students, faculty, and others are more likely to adhere to restrictions if they have easy access to them, and lengthy documents do not satisfy this requirement. 

To address this, we propose Policy Pal, a chatbot service for use throughout the MIT community. Students can anonymously ask questions, and the bot provides clear answers directly from the administrative guidelines. Such a system becomes especially beneficial with the increase in campus density this upcoming semester, where new situations and policies will surely arise. Our chatbot provides an adaptable system of keeping everyone informed of guidelines that are specifically relevant to them, rather than relying on campus-wide email barrages. Common questions may indicate where MIT communication is unclear, and these can then be addressed through other measures. Additionally, we include a way to report misconduct and provide feedback on controversial guidelines, providing an all-encompassing solution to policy awareness and communication.

Our solution not only provides an easy-to-use way of checking and tracking COVID guidelines, but also a stream of feedback for administration to analyze community understanding. The chatbot may be implemented within a variety of apps to cover all demographics, including as an Instagram, Discord, or Slack bot. Focusing on policy communication, rather than disciplinary action, builds trust amongst students, and encourages proper conduct. Our chatbot’s simple interface for the extensive COVID guidelines further ensures a safe and healthy spring semester.
